you mentioned something a while ago that
really struck my
attention I thought about what Jesus
went through for
us he died simply to give his life that
we can have life but then again how much
are we willing to go out of our comfort
zone to be to help some other child the
thing of it is and you mentioned
something about Comfort I think that
what has happened the church have gotten
too comfort
and they got so comfortable until they
feel like that is not their problem it's
somebody else's problem but they fail to
realize that Jesus said I came to seek
and to save that which was lost right we
should be doing if we going to be
Christlike that mean we going to have to
walk in his shoes the Pharisees and the
sades did not agree with what he was
doing but he knew his responsibility
when God called you to purpose he did
not say it was going to be a a level
Road it going to be a smooth Road it's
going to be some ups and downs you going
to have some problem but ultimately if
you just stay in the process God is
going to move in him he's going to teach
you he G and all of those situations
that we've been in God made us make us
stronger he make us more more aware he
helped us to be able that we can be a
blessing to somebody else we went
through yes I'll tell anybody yes we
went through hell stealing lying
anything you can name they did but the
thing of here God never give up on us so
why we have to give up on the children
we did something we doing this and we
believe today that if God telling to
wait in those woods churches nowadays is
so flourish with so much wealth and so
much gift that they can help another
child but are they doing it no and here
God suon all the way down in them bushes
in those woods to start something and
it's to be to show this world what what
we are missing we don't know what we got
locked in that system we could have
presidents and preachers and teachers
and missionary work all locked in that
system but if we don't do something
about this and stop this process right
now it's sweating up every day long more
and more and more so I'm I'm believing
right now that God going to use this as
a catalist to let this whole world know
hey look look what you missing look what
we have looked over James 127 said P
religion is undefiled that God accept
that we take care of the widows and the
offer now have we did that no we have
not and God got an indictment against
these comfortable churches with these
big fine uh family life centers and
doing all and I'm not against that cuz I
would like to have one myself but the
fact of it is we got all the resources
we need when we did what we don't we
didn't have no resour only thing we have
with each other you thought the
community we came together and realized
that the church got to come together we
created our own wraparound support right
there in the church we deti the mens and
the women to help us to watch over the
children because this is a major problem
that's going on the schools got problem
I got to go to the school I got to do
this I got to do that but not one time
that I back up from the responsibility
why because if God be for us who can be
against we've got to realize right now
that God given us the ability to do the
thing that we do because the scripture
said greater is he that is in us and he
that what we got this power over
everything on all the money for over
everything over because the Lord is with
us and that's all I know and that's what
he told Moses on that mountain he said
look you ain't got to worry about that
he said if you don't know what to say
just shut your mouth up and I'll speak
through you so God done the whole thing
all we got to do got be willing to goe
on and do the work that God called us to
do and stop looking to the left and stop
looking to the right and stop looking up
to the hill that come which come out
here we can get this thing done this
system is going to be empty God is going
to empty this system out why because he
went all out of his way and I'd like to
say this too the first law of nature is
self for but the first law of Grace is
of for Jesus went all out of his way to
make sure that we can be sitting up here
today well there's something to be said
too for a demonstration case in a
relatively isolated and poor community
because if you can do it there you do it
any well that's that's the idea isn't it
and you know I was reminded when you
were talking about part of the story of
Elijah and when Elijah is running from
Jezebel right the evil queen essentially
the nature worshipper um he ends up in
the house of a widow right and the Widow
has not enough food for her and her
children right and there's a famous
episode in that story where
I think she hits the side of the flower
Barrel continually and every day there's
more flower provided but the idea there
is that it's a very fundamental idea and
it's the idea that you just expressed
which is
that there's more possibility available
even to people who think they're in
poverty even if they are in poverty than
they believe if they're alignment is
proper and their aim is up amen now okay
so let's delve into that a little bit so
this is a this is a poor Community
doesn't have much resources the church
isn't
even architecturally sound and yet
people do this and so how do they manage
it like how do why does it has it worked
and why did it work it worked because
number one we came together number two
it worked because the Lord was with us
we had many needs and still do but the
problem of it is some way and somehow
when you are doing this for the Lord and
doing it in his will and obeying his
commandment God would drop stuff on you
that you never dream God would take
somebody that you never heard of and he
said look I just was thinking about you
and I just want to bless you with
something this is the way God this is
where you able to accomplish thing and
look it ain't nothing to be be grinning
and oh man look who I am said it ain't
nothing like that but the thing of it is
stand in the process I can't get that
word out of my mind process
a process is something that you stay
with if you get out of the process you
done messed up all but if you stay in
the process especially when God has
already opened up them challeng for you
to walk through all we got to do is just
stay with the process obey his will and
understand that God got your back I
don't care what happened see that's the
same thing with Elijah I mean he was
went to this Widow house and what
happened he said look I tell you what
you do he said we just G I got a little
oil and a little H and and me and my son
we going to eat and we going to drink
and we going to die but look what God
Said look don't do that he said give me
mine first she obeyed the man of God and
the Mandate that was on his life she
obeyed that what he did and her her meal
bear never ran out again this is what
happened when we obey God this is the
thing that happen when we stay in the
process and do what he said do it ain't
going to happen no way because we do
have our adversary out there that
fighting us on every hand don't want to
see us do this and same thing you done
about this whole movie he have fought us
on two na but let me tell you something
only thing I can say about that but God
when you going through something and you
know that the Lord is with you you don't
even have to be a you don't be a don't
even look at their faces don't be afraid
of that because God is going to work it
out some way and somehow God is going to
work out when Israel got out there in
bun and needed some water what God told
to hit the rock and more water it's just
the way he does thing we don't we don't
always can't Define it but we know that
God is with us so you know one one of
the things that's interesting about that
Elijah story too is that it's after
Elijah has the that encounter with the
Widow who is contrasted with Jezebel
who's
powerful that's when his conscience
awakens within him right because this is
a very crucial story because Elijah of
course is one of the prophets who
appears with Jesus when he's
transfigured it's Elijah Moses and Jesus
and Elijah is the first person in the
biblical sequence of stories who
formally identifies god with conscience
right because it's Elijah who talks
about the still Small Voice he realizes
that God's not in the earthquake not in
the fire not in the storm these awe
inspiring elements of nature that's
partly why he's opposed to the nature
worshippers and what he does instead is
take everything that people had
misapprehended in the awesome of
awesomeness of nature as indicative of
God and he places it in a very lowly
place in a way which is the voice of
conscience right now and part of the
theme that we've been developing in this
discussion is something like the
Awakening of conscience in the church
okay so now do you think there's any
particular significance in the fact that
this is also something that happened in
a predominantly black
community no it's something that is
happening well let me say it like this
what we did was in the black community
but what God did what God is doing now
he exposing it to the world yeah ABS he
want everybody to know that we all got a
part in this and like I said earlier
everybody can't adopt but everybody can
be a part of adoption we can do
something to help the sad part about it
if we don't do absolutely nothing that's
the sad part but I do know one thing if
God be for us I don't care what happened
I don't care what they can shake the the
the the graveyard and called dry bones
to rise it doesn't matter if God be for
real we going to
succeed this movie if if if Josh would
just give you a a short history of the
hell of the problem of the situation and
out the trouble and the trauma that we
have to got have did just to get this
this far and it still it devil ain't
through yet he's still raising up his
ugly head but here the thing of it is
God wants somebody who wants to no who
won't give up and the lady told me the
other day she said these words she said
whatever God say yes in your spirit
that's what you do God done said yes and
that's what we doing we are not bagging
up we're not taking down we're not
running away because you know why we got
the power over this not the enemy but he
want to throw up this Bluff and make us
feel and and try to intimidate us but
look I'm I'm too old a cat to be Fool by
Kid I'm not g to let the enemy try to
bring this stuff down on me and I know
better cuz I already know what the Lord
said no weapon I mean absolutely no
weapon formed against us shall prosper
we are more than a conqueror and our
stands on there I'll say something
you're pretty good at
that there I think there is something
about your community and even the black
community at large because of what in
our country they've had to overcome
historically and the the bond that's
been created through community and
family that they've thrived you know
because of and survived because of it's
an example I think in a picture of what
Christian family is supposed to be like
you know and I don't mean blood family I
just mean spiritual family as well so I
think there is something that we noticed
that that allowed for this to work and
is an example that we want to follow and
I think we've lost at least in the
bigger cities you know I think there's a
lot of smaller communities that just
kind of naturally have that but it's a
it's a it it was just being a black
woman and proud of being you know black
and
and but I well I was think I think
parents well there's a particular
problem with breakdown of family
structures in the black community and so
the fact that you're working within your
marriage and then you're working with
this within this community to rectify
some of the consequences of that seems
to me to be significant in addition to
the fact that you're doing it with well
hypothetically with restricted resources
it's like it's not so obvious in a way
that your community is poor because you
actually have a community and if you're
rich and you don't have a community
you're poor right well it's true it's
true well true you're just rich and
isolated and then that often just does
you nothing but give you license to
pursue your idiot habits and you know
that's partly why Christ says to the
rich man who's in distress that he has
to sell everything you think you're rich
but not you're not rich at all in fact
your wealth is an enemy that's kind of
the enemy that you made illusion to with
regards to the church no it's the com
that comfort you could think of that
comfor Comfort is Abraham's worst enemy
when he begins his Adventure right it's
what he has to what he has to sacrifice
immediately to go out into the world is
comfort you said something that you
brought up Abraham notice what Abraham
no know what he did Abraham when God
said Abraham get up yeah and go to a
land that I show you did he ask God
which direction did he question God why
me did he question what Abraham done
gathered up his flock gathered up his
stuff and started and hit the road but
hit the road
now I I'm sitting up here saying how did
Abraham know whether go north south east
or west the Lord's with him and God was
was showing him within his own I'll show
you the way he should go and he went
that way continually and you you
mentioned lot while ago it came a time
yeah that God had to do something
because him and the Bible said how can
two walk together except they agree so
Abraham and lot had to separate right
because God had a plan for Abraham
that's why the separate but the thing of
it is God blessed lot and he also
blessed Abraham but Abraham had the cup
I I preached a message one Sunday to get
get a lot you got to give up a lot yeah
and that's what we don't you got to give
up your lot to get a lot that's what
Abraham done he gave up his lot that's
funny to get a lot and after he gave up
his lot look what God done yeah he said
Abraham I'm going make you rich but he
had to give up yeah his own nephew in
order to get this Rich from God well God
God God offers Abraham four things right
so he comes to Abraham and he says leave
what what's comfortable and he says this
is what will happen your life will
become a blessing to you right your name
will become known validly among your
contemporaries you will establish
something permanent and of lasting value
for Abraham it's a dynasty of Nations
and you'll do that in a way that brings
a blessing to everyone right and so that
call of adventurous responsibility
that's what came to you on the porch
okay so what has that done to your
community what have you seen happen as a
consequence first of all to the people
who adopted and the children but what's
been the broader impact on the community
the enlargment of love family you uh
stability Faith sound of hope you know
and passing down stopping the
generational curses right the breaker
being the bondage breaker and seeing
that those children children
because they were gathered into love and
impact by change that their children my
grandchildren that I nurture you know
that comes up to our home will never
have to experience what they parents
yeah yeah yeah you're talking about
gratitude and gratefulness right so it's
a permanent change it's a permanent
change it's an everlasting just at the
promise yeah gave unto ABR so well
that's right so so what happens so what
happens to Abraham is that God says to
him if you follow the voice of
Adventure and let it take you wherever
it wants to take you then you'll become
the father of Nations and so I'm
thinking about that well I think what it
means okay
see there's a mistake that evolutionary
biologists make when they think about
human reproduction they think about
reproduction as sex but that's foolish
because our children require this kind
of dedicated commitment that that you
mentioned right once you take on a child
it's like it's a 40-year commitment
right and so sex just gets the ball
rolling you might say there's an immense
sacrifice that has to be made after made
after that and that's the sacrifice that
forces you to mature well what God
points out to Abraham is that if he do
does that right he'll establish a
pattern of fatherhood that will then
Cascade down the generations and make
his descendants successful
right because God promises him that his
descendants will defeat the people of
Cain for example and those are the
resentful bitter descendants of Cain
[Music]